# Stats-Final-Project
For this project, I analyzed Taylor Swift songs. For this analysis, I used apple music and spotify to gather information needed from each Taylor Swift song. The unit of analysis was songs out of 40 observations. The type of sampling strategy used was a convenience sample. 

The first qualitative variable was Taylor Swift's emotions after each song. This variable represents the concept of how Taylor Swift feels after each song and what story she expressed in her life/what the story taught her. The variable was measured by categorizing the emotions by song. The coding scheme was 1 representing happy, 2 representing sad, 3, representing angry, 4 representing confused, and 5 representing any other emotion exhibited by Taylor Swift. This variable operationalizes the concept because it categorizes emotions into numbers in order to record how Taylor Swift feels after each song/what emotion she is trying to express. This turns an abstract idea of emotions in data. 

The second qualitative variable was the theme of each song. This variable represents the concept of meaning behind lyrics in a song. The variable was measured by analyzing the topic of each song and categorizing them into themes. The variables coding scheme will be categorized through common themes such as heartbreak (1), healing (2), friendship (3), family (4), other (5). This variable operationalizes the concept because it measures the meaning behind lyrics by analyzing the connections Taylor Swift makes throughout the song. 

The first quantitative variable was time. This variable represents the concept of the amount of seconds each song is. The variable was measured by keeping track of how many seconds each song was. The coding scheme was the minutes divided by 60 seconds because there are 60 seconds in a minute, and then the additional seconds left of a song was added to the calculation. The unit was seconds. This variable operationalizes the concept because it turns an abstract idea into use in orer to prove the significance of timing in a song and the impact of how long each song is. 

The second quantitative variable was streams. This variable represents the concept of how many times the public plays a single song. The variable was measured by keeping track of the amount of plays per song on spotify. The coding scheme was the amount of streams. This variable operationalizes the concept because it takes the idea of streams of Taylor Swifts songs and turns it into a statistic to determine if there is a pattern or relationship that can be found to analyze why certain songs are streamed more than others. It could be because of how long each song is or even the theme the song portrays that can ultimately affect the amount of streams it has. 
